{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2820
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12720\viewh7800\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 # Host Discovery with Nmap\
\
## Lab Details\
\
- **Lab Name**: Performing Host Discovery\
- **Lab Environment**: EC-Council iLabs\
- **Lab Goal**: Identify active hosts in a target network using various Nmap scanning techniques.\
\
## Tools and Environment\
\
- **Virtual Machine**: Parrot Security OS (provided by EC-Council iLabs)\
- **Tool Used**: Nmap\
\
---\
\
## Objective\
\
The goal of this lab was to identify active hosts in a target network using multiple Nmap techniques. The results provide a basis for further network analysis and security evaluations.\
\
---\
\
## Procedures and Results\
\
### 1. ARP Ping Scan\
\
- **Command**:  \
  `nmap -sn -PR 10.10.1.22`\
- **Description**: Sends ARP requests to the target IP. An ARP reply indicates that the host is active.\
- **Result**: Host `10.10.1.22` was identified as active.\
\
---\
\
### 2. UDP Ping Scan\
\
- **Command**:  \
  `nmap -sn -PU 10.10.1.22`\
- **Description**: Sends UDP packets to the target IP. A response indicates that the host is active.\
- **Result**: Host `10.10.1.22` responded successfully.\
\
---\
\
### 3. ICMP ECHO Ping Scan\
\
- **Command**:  \
  `nmap -sn -PE 10.10.1.22`\
- **Description**: Sends ICMP ECHO requests to the target IP. An ICMP ECHO reply indicates that the host is active.\
- **Result**: Host `10.10.1.22` was successfully identified as active.\
\
---\
\
### 4. ICMP ECHO Ping Sweep\
\
- **Command**:  \
  `nmap -sn -PE 10.10.1.10-23`\
- **Description**: Tests multiple IPs simultaneously. Active hosts respond with ICMP ECHO replies.\
- **Result**: Active hosts identified:  \
  - `10.10.1.15`  \
  - `10.10.1.18`  \
  - `10.10.1.22`\
\
---\
\
### 5. ICMP Timestamp Ping Scan\
\
- **Command**:  \
  `nmap -sn -PP 10.10.1.22`\
- **Description**: Queries the current time from the target host via ICMP Timestamp. Useful when ICMP ECHO is blocked.\
- **Result**: Host `10.10.1.22` responded successfully.\
\
---\
\
## Supplementary Techniques\
\
### 6. ICMP Address Mask Ping Scan\
\
- **Command**:  \
  `nmap -sn -PM 10.10.1.22`\
- **Description**: Searches for hosts using an alternative ICMP Ping technique with address masks.\
- **Result**: Host `10.10.1.22` was identified.\
\
---\
\
### 7. TCP SYN Ping Scan\
\
- **Command**:  \
  `nmap -sn -PS 10.10.1.22`\
- **Description**: Sends TCP SYN packets to target ports. A SYN+ACK response indicates an active host.\
- **Result**: Host `10.10.1.22` was successfully identified as active.\
\
---\
\
### 8. TCP ACK Ping Scan\
\
- **Command**:  \
  `nmap -sn -PA 10.10.1.22`\
- **Description**: Sends empty TCP-ACK packets. An RST response indicates an active host.\
- **Result**: Host `10.10.1.22` was successfully identified.\
\
---\
\
### 9. IP Protocol Ping Scan\
\
- **Command**:  \
  `nmap -sn -PO 10.10.1.22`\
- **Description**: Examines various IP protocol responses from the target host.\
- **Result**: Host `10.10.1.22` was successfully identified.\
\
---\
\
## Results and Key Learnings\
\
- **Combining Techniques**: Primary techniques (ARP, ICMP) were quick and efficient. Supplementary techniques (e.g., TCP SYN Scan) provided additional reliability, especially in networks with restricted ICMP traffic.\
- **Nmap's Effectiveness**: Nmap proved to be an extremely versatile and accurate tool for identifying active hosts.}